"It's about all those who are like me. We will not be overlooked or go unseen. We'll be seen"If it's real Afrikaans hip-hop you're after then Jack Parrow and Die Antwoord are not the answer.This "new" sound is back and taking off in a big way.Prophets of the City and Brasse Vannie Kaap did it in the early 1990s - but it never quite got there.Afrikaans rap is not just rap in the Afrikaans language , it's a colloquial language spoken particularly by coloured people throughout the country.Like Motswako artists who decided to make hip-hop their own, these men and women opt to be real.Dialects and slang may differ from province to province, but it's a groove that is so vibey it's bound to become a national sound. Pioneers of the culture say Afrikaans rap is fast becoming something of cultural importance for the youth. A medium used to express their thoughts, struggles and dreams.But it's not all serious - they also take the mickey out of things - with kasi slang that will leave most people dumbfounded. For example Young G's Jou Ding Moet Pyn [Your thing must hurt] translating it to English just wouldn't be the same. It has come a long way since Funni Carp's rather controversial and heavy loaded, Hie Kom Jou P...Someone who has helped change the perception and given the genre more respect is Hemelbesem.With the release of local film, Noem My Skollie this year, Hemelbesem, who sings the title track, has become a household name.The 35-year-old artist, whose real name is Simon Witbooi, was born in Vredendal, Western Cape.He breaks down what the "Kullid" hip-hop is all about."Kletsrym'' is actually the proper Afrikaans term for rapping. But I guess we feel you first must be able to Rym (rhyme) before you "klets'' (talking fast). Talent first. It is a culture on its own though. From the colloquialisms to everyday life," says Hemelbesem.He says his own music speaks about the joy and pain of his people. "I try to share "our'' Afrikaans and the stories of how it came about and how it continues to grow without negating existing ideas of Afrikaans."About his stage name he says "Hemelbesem means a very tall person'' in Afrikaans."I'm tall on the inside and refuse to be overlooked. But it's not about me only. It's about all those who are like me. We will not be overlooked or go unseen. We will be seen."Hemelbesem says although the culture genre has been buzzing in the underground for a while already, but has not been embraced by the industry."We are still fighting what the likes of POC fought back then, namely the stereotypes of being Afrikaans, the type of Afrikaans and, of course, the honesty that hip-hop brings to the table."It is, in most cases, still seen as rebellious and politically incorrect. What has changed, though, is that it is being recognised by poetry and language pundits as a contributor to Afrikaans. Needless to say, the social media factor also contributed to the rise of Afrikaans hip-hop," he says.To get his music out there Hemelbesem completed a project for an NGO that addresses the issue of fetal alcohol syndrome among others.He says roughly 38000 copies of that album were given to school kids, farm workers, shebeen owners, around the Boland area, and in the Northern Cape.Some may argue that both Jack Parrow and Die Antwoord are the pioneers of this sound. But Hemelbesem says these groups developed in the coloured hip-hop scenes in Mitchells Plain, Cape Town."Yes, they do borrow. Like we all borrow from each other. Die Antwoord has taken it too far though, and in my opinion they register as culture vultures. I might be wrong, but I've kept a watchful eye on them and they use so many Coloured-specific references in their work."I would've forgiven them if they helped their heroes like Isaac Mutant and Jaak to the top. But they didn't. Jack is different though. He found his vibe. We had a conversation about these issues the other day and I can actually respect him for what he does."You can't fault both of these groups just because of their success. They did what was necessary at that time to break through a certain market. And then again nobody owns a language. It just hurts when originators of words and slang are not recognised publicly."Not all is lost though, judging by how fondly Hemelbesem speaks of YOMA - the first lady of Afrikaans hip-hop - whose real name is Claudia Witbooi, and the strides she's making in the industry."A revolution is definitely happening in that regard and also youth realising that it is okay to rap in their language whether it be Zulu or Afrikaans. Especially those following an Americanised idea of hip-hop. Though the true revolution lies with the artist first,'' says Hemelbesem.This shorty says she earned her title by what she brings to the table."I've been in the game for about 10 years now. There are quite a few upcoming and existing Afrikaans female emcees.But I don't know any who have been hustling as long as I have been,'' she says.Explaining her moniker, Witbooi says she wanted to bring a new meaning to jou ma or jou ma se which is not likely to be used in a positive context, thus I did a song called "YOMA SIN"."Also the name is nice to rhyme with and is actually two general hip-hop terms "YO'' and "MA," she says.Phoenix, 24, is a Joburg female rapper who is often referred to as "Die meddie met die vuil swag" (Girlfriend with killer style).Her real name is Robin Wright - named after the actress from the soapie Santa Barbara who entertained many black homes in the 1980s. Her lyrical talent was recognised when she joined up with an all-male group KLRD from Eldorado Park, who recently teamed up with Gigi Lamayne.Their hit song Bushiemet die Veil Swag made many sing along to the lyrics If you can't vang tips feel free to Jella. She prefers calling herself an artist. "I am not just a rapper. I have been writing poetry from a young age. I am also a dancer and I paint. While working on Eldos FM, I was approached to be the female MC. It was great but the time came for me to do my own thing."She started a company called Abnormal Agency with her friend Delano Michaels, where they uncover many other musicians, designers, rappers and actors.Around Walvis Bay in Namibia, Ike Ikey Ixa is seen as the Tupac of his time. He is confident that his rhymes and performances are even better than AKA's.And he is probably right as his talent is insane. "I am my biggest fan because I didn't have anyone to look up to. The difference is that I am original, I sing and rap in my mother tongue because I get to express what I truly feel."I speak Zulu as well - but I can't be as expressive in it. I don't try to be or sing about things I know nothing about - like B's and H's and money I don't have. I speak about issues that are real. I give people like myself a voice. Inspiring others, that is what hip- hop is all about," says the rapper who fills up stadiums around Namibia regularly.Coined as the king of Afrikaans hip-hop, he says he started the rap game to inspire youth to better themselves. "I had a very tough upbringing. Times when there wasn't even food ... I was so poor friends called me "Honger lagte" (dirt poor). But like my song says, Vorentoe, I look ahead and push even more to become a success. The young men and women around here need to see that there is a life beyond drugs, poverty and crime," he says.By day he is an aviation operator. "A fancy word for someone who fills airplanes with petrol," he jokes.His music can be accessed for free on www.reverbnation.com"Right now the music is offered for free. Besides, music doesn't belong to me or anyone. It's a share world. I know one day my passion will pay off."Earl Swartz, better known as Early B, is better described as the comical Eminem of the Afrikaans hip-hop scene. The 27-year-old comes from a little town called Bloemendal near Port Elizabeth.His songs Dakskroef, Leka Djy and Bene Lam are blowing up local radio stations and are a big hit on YouTube. Early B says he raps about community topics."Many of my songs are inspired by the things I see, or things I go through. So each song would have a message with a humorous twist. Dakskroef was made for girls who don't present themselves nicely ... seeing a girl walking in the street at 12 noon with a night gown and a "swirl kous" on her head wasn't a nice view, and we thought we would address the matter."That's why I said, 'it's not about your looks, it's what you do that makes you a dakskroef'."Leka Djy was really just me creating a scenario of scenes with myself trying to buy 2-minute noodles (something I love eating) and the difficulties of getting it because the girl at the counter likes me and is willing to go to extreme measures to get me, while I try to get my hand on the noodles."I must say I had a lot of fun creating the song and the music video.."His music career started about eight years ago in a group called Mc Earl and Agemi."We rapped about social topics that we witnessed in our area (Bloemendal). I chose to rap in Afrikaans because I felt like I could express myself much easier."His music, which he releases independently, can be accessed on www.earlybmusic.com