 Vanessa Nompumelelo Mgcina told police at the Mondeor cop shop that "my boyfriend" Jub Jub "strangled me with both hands" during their altercation on December 2 . Mgcina, 32, told Sunday World that she has since withdrawn the case against Jub Jub, who is expected to be released on parole next month."After having a meeting with my family, I decided to go to the police station and withdraw the case. I was angry and emotional and blew the whole thing out of proportion," Mgcina said.Speaking on behalf of Jub Jub's family, the musician's manager Jeff Marhanele said the family was happy the case has been withdrawn."The family can confirm that a woman came to their home in Naturena and wanted to see Jub Jub. She was not allowed to do so and was turned back at the gate. It came as a shock to be told that she opened a case of assault against Jub Jub. She did not even see him as he was in the house when she was attended to at the gate," said Marhanele.Police spokesman Lungelo Dlamini had not responded to questions by the time of going to print yesterday. The Department of Correctional Services said it was aware of the alleged assault and have launched its own investigation into the matter.Spokesman Singabakho Nxumalo said: "The outcome of the investigation will indicate what steps are to be taken in line with the departmental policy on parole placement. It is worth mentioning that [the department] takes this matter seriously and harsh measures will be taken against any offender who breaks the law or violates parole conditions."In her initial police statement, Mgcina had claimed that she was sitting on a chair in the sitting room at Jub Jub's home and he was sitting in the lounge."His uncle went and called him for her. Molemo came and she asked him what he was doing home as she did not know that he was on a weekend visit."He started shouting at her and told her to shut up because she was making noise and disturbing his rituals. He strangled her with both hands and then he moved his left hand and shut her face with it."She started crying and he walked out of the room... [she] felt pains in the front of her throat," reads the police statement.