 At the ripe age of 30, the model, actress and businesswoman is thriving and putting her best foot forward in every way possible.You may have caught her playing a pregnant girl on SABC 1's Tooth and Nails or passer by in a scene in Generations - parts she stresses were both "just acting stints".Fast forward to 2016 and Ayanda is finally getting her big break in the new season of Rockville, which kicked off last week on Mzansi Magic.However, strangely enough the beauty's call for a spot on the local series already came knocking years back when she was offered to play in the very first season but turned it down."I was supposed to be in season 1 but I was still working a 9 to 5 job and it required me to take time off to shoot. which"I couldn't do at the time with the demands of the job," she says.She worked as a brand manager at the international beauty brand L'Oreal.Although shattered at the lost chance, the opportunity still managed to find its way back to her.Ayanda plays Aliyah, a stripper whom she describes as a naughty girl by night and a granny's child by day."She does what she has to do in order to survive. She's a timid, loving, free-spirited girl but because of her unfortunate background she has to be fierce."The actress spent months at the gym and took up pole dancing classes to get her body in tip-top shape for the role."I'm a conservative girl and this character requires me to show off my body. It took so much out of me. You have to be comfortable with your body to be able to expose that part of yourself. But this role has so many facets and I have to prepare my psyche and understand why she makes the choices she does so that I don't judge her."Growing up in almost every township in Durban when her parents separated as a child, it was in 2005 that Ayanda spread her wings to Joburg to study and later graduate with two degrees and an Honours in Marketing.Modeling also proved a rough start as she battled with not being tall enough."I'm really short and it took me such a long time to get the right agency who would take me for my height. I needed to be at least 1.73 and I'm only 1.6 in height. My director friend referred me to Shashi Naidoo's modeling agency Alushi which is based on real people and Shashi took a chance on me."Since leaving her job as brand manager at L'Oreal to start her own business, Buzzworthy, she now has the pleasure of taking on modeling and acting gigs.The beauty has scooped two major deals that is yet to be revealed to the public.Without divulging too much she revealed that she's been chosen to be the ambassador of an international face care brand."It has a good South African heritage that I am very happy to represent. All will be revealed in September," she giggled.And if that's not enough with the mystery she let me in on a new international TV show that she will be hosting."It's exciting and people are going to love it. People are now going to see Ayanda as a TV host too."