 Sebezo attributes being a teetotaller and Christian as factors that have shaped and sustained her acting career. At 15, she was already singing, dancing and acting on stage as part of the Gibson Kente township theatre ensemble of the late 1970s."During those years we were viewed with disdain. There was no respect for the craft. We were seen as loose women when you told people you made a living from showbiz," says the mother of one."I was not moved by the remarks at all. I knew I was an entertainer at heart, so nothing was going to dissuade me."Sebezo, 52, was recently featured as Pheko's domineering mother on SABC1's Generations.The TV actress won her first major TV award at the 2016 Saftas in March for her role as the best-supporting actress in the SABC2 comedy Gauteng Maboneng."Now that I have broken the awards hoodoo, I am elated. I believe it is a sign of better things to come. I appreciate and embrace the award because I believe it will open more doors for me."Talking about doors being swung open, Sebezo's Sharon D character has had tongues wagging and she is trending on social media."Sharon D is a single mom who is trying hard to protect her children but is also love-sick and entertains ideas of being a sugar mummy with little success," she says."Despite the adversities, she keeps her head high."She is your typical township woman that many can relate to. She would do anything to protect her kids. She is a hustler of some sort," says Sebezo.As her way of giving back to the community and fans who have supported her over the years, she plans to open an acting school to coach youngsters."While motivating youngsters I want to teach them that the industry is not for the faint-hearted. It can make or break you."I am pleased that as actors, we are no longer looked down upon."Our work is being recognised all over the world. We are being taken seriously. The standard of the work produced and flighted on the continent and in some countries abroad compares with the best."mtshazox@sundayworld.co.za